Here is your project.
You are gonna make a calculator.
And I'm gonna make you do all the CSS too,
cause this is some fun CSS.
I think it is.
I want you to think about a calculator.
I imagine all of us have
used a calculator before.
And I love this thought experiment
because it forces you to break down.
It's like wait, how does
a calculator actually work, right?
You're into it.
How to work with a calculator just by
having used one probably since you were
a child.
But we actually have to like sit down and
think about like the logical process,
like wait, if I hit 25 plus,
it stores 25 somewhere.
Where does it store it?
I don't know, it's black magic, right?
Do the magic gremlins of
the calculator store them?
I don't know.
Or if I hit Clear,
that does something as well, right?
But I want you to write a calculator.
So like 25 plus 3 equals 28, right?
Or 80, clear, 80 divided by 4 equals 20.
So this is mostly based
on the iOS calculator.
It looks like one of you have iOS.
So this is my implementation of it.
Notice I had like fun little hover states
that if you hover over it lightens it
a little bit so it looks clickable, right?
Same thing with the orange ones.
If you push it, it gets darker so
that it looks like a press down button,
all sorts of fun stuff like that.
This is a super incomplete,
very naive implementation of a calculator.
And that's what we're going for.
So make it look somewhat like this.
I ended up using grid.
Should function like a normal calculator.
Don't implement the percent or period,
just assume everything is an integer.
Again, I don't want you to
go off the rails on this.
C means clear.
So if I have 58 and
I just hit C, it goes back to 0.
Doing the back arrow will be extra credit.
So if I do 25, and it's like,
I actually meant to do 26,
I can hit back arrow 6, right?
Don't worry if the number is too long for
the screen, I don't care, right?
So if someone does 26 times 666699888,
right, equals, times,
yeah, whatever you want.
So, yeah, don't worry too much
about overflow on the screen.
And then calculators tend
to have funny behaviors
when you hit 0,
like if I hit 25 times 3 equals.
If this was a calculator and I hit 7,
you would expect it to clear it and
it'd just be 7, right?
I think mine just adds it.
So I don't care what you do after
someone hits equals, that's up to you.
So you can make it work how you
would expect a calculate to work.
Or you can just follow my way,
which is just to keep adding things.
That's super fine for me.
And that is it for
the product requirements.
So I gave you a list of things,
I gave you a design.
At this point I would be expected to like
you as the developer that I hired to work
on my special calculator project to
go out and be able to implement this.
Some tips and tricks.
This is a big problem, right?
A calculator is a non-trivial
problem to work on.
It's easier if you take this and break it
down into smaller problems and smaller
problems, because big problems are hard to
solve, small problems are easier to solve.
So try and
make big problems small problems.
The way you do that is make functions.
Make functions that call other other
functions, that call other functions and
have very small, very succinct functions.
Don't have big functions,
have little functions.
Personally, I wrote all the HTML and
CSS first.
I found that easier,
you don't have to do it that way.
Once I did that then I
did all the JavaScript.
For the font of the results screen, so
like this part right
here I used model space.
I found that to be a good looking font for
that.
Feel free to do whatever you want.
There's so
many correct ways to write this.
I wrote it one way.
There are other ways to do it.
Feel free to do it your way,
you do not have to do it my way.
It's a good idea to make these buttons,
because now if I hit Tab,
you can see the blue outline there.
So this is actually pretty accessible.
So if I hit 8, 9 times 9, and
then I go down here and hit,
all the way down equals, it works.
I didn't have to do anything
extra to do that, but
going through things via tab is a big
thing if someone can't use a mouse, right?
So that's a good idea to use buttons,
you just get that for free.
I didn't have to do anything extra,
buttons will just do that.
I talked about how to get
the spacing here nicely.
You can do this with flex,
you can do it with grid as well.
Both of those will work.
Sometimes I do the math
to get things right.
Sometimes I just guess and check.
That's up to you.
And you can add a class and
you get these orange buttons.
Or you can put them in rows and
add last child or like nth child.
All valid ways to get
the orange buttons on the side.
And again, no wrong way to do this.
It took me about 80 lines of JavaScript.
So if you're writing 500,
you've probably asked yourself questions
about how you can make things simpler.
I use console.log() everywhere
when I'm writing code.
It's just an easy way of debugging.
Many small functions is
preferable to one large function.
In general, what you should do is
you should have some sort of event
listener way for the user to do something.
And then if they say, okay, I see that
they pressed plus delegate to a plus
function, or
delegate to a number function, right?
It's much more preferable
to have smaller functions.
And you can have one event listener for
everything, or
you can just go ahead and add an event
listener for every individual button.
That is very much up to you.
Yeah, one more thing that I wanna call,
because this will almost certainly
be a problem for you, is types.
So we've talked a little bit about like
the difference between string 4 and
number 4, right?
So if I bring this up and I say, console,
4 is double equal to 4, right?
But 4 is not triple equals to 4, right?
That's because this is a number 4 and
this is a string 4.
So these are double equals true, but
they're not triple equals true
because they're not the same type.
So if I have this div right here, sorry,
is this a div, or it might be a paragraph?
This is a div, okay?
So I have a div here that
just contains the number 10.
And if I say document.querySelector, and
I grab out of it the inner text of it.
What is the inner text of this?
Is this going to be number 10 or
string 10?
Inner text is a strong hint here.
It's string, right?
So the DOM is always gonna
give you back strings.
It never gives you back numbers, right?
So if you're trying to say,
if number is triple equals to this,
it's never gonna be true
because it's not the same type.
So this is what I was showing you here,
console.log.
So I have number 10 here, right?
Num, type of num is going to be 10,
number.
Typeof just shows you what
type something is, right?
Okay, and then if I come back here and
say typeof( inner text).
Despite the fact that I literally
set it right here, right?
I set inner texts to be num.
And then I ask for it back,
it already converts it to a string.
So you can see here it is a string.
So there's a bunch of, yeah, and
a funny example of doing this.
If I say 5 + 5, If they're strings,
it thinks like, the way I add those
together, that's string concatenation, so
5 + 5 is 55 for strings.
Not 5+5 like that, right?
So there's a couple of
easy ways to do that.
If I have 5 like this and
I want it to be a number,
the easiest way,
if I just add a plus in the front of it,
this simplicity converts anything
inside of this to a number.
It's called the unary plus.
Not that you really need to care about
that, but that's what that is called.
Pretty sure you can also say, To,
what is the function, value of?
No, that's not the one.
I think new number does work though.
Or, See,
I have my own problems trying
to remember what this is.
ParseInt, that's really
the one I'm looking for.
So, you can do that as well.
You can take a string and
you can pass it on to Number.parseInt() it
will turn it into an integer for
you, or a number.
So a couple of ways of doing that.
You can either do the plus this way,
it's a little clever.
But if someone's reading your code they
may not be familiar with that trick in
JavaScript, whereas like
Number.parseInt() is very explicit.
You are passing an int and
getting back a number.
Okay, you can also use the typeof
operator if you need to.
Yeah, typeof is a weird one.
But if you're just worrying
about numbers like typeof(5),
if you're just using like that, it's
totally fine to use typeof as well, okay?
And then you should end up
with something like this.
Okay, there's my HTML, there's my CSS,
there's my JavaScript.
I'm gonna encourage you to try and
do this on your own.
I'm going to imagine this will
take you longer than an hour.
Certainly it took me longer
than an hour to do this.
It might take you several hours,
it might take you a couple of days and
coming back to this.
All of those are totally acceptable.
So this is not a simple thing.
But I have given you all the tools
that you need to be able to do this.
So, good luck.